# eyeStick with You!

Visual impairment can be termed as blindness or vision loss. This impairment causes many difficulties in their day-to-day activities such as in reading, walking, socialising, and driving. They are dependent on external assistance which can be provided by humans, dogs or special electronic devices for better decision making. This motivated us to create a prototype called “Assistive Smart Cane for Visually Impaired” to overcome the problems they face in their daily life.
The proposed smart cane is designed with obstacle detection module, trajectory mapping, heat detection, water detection, pulse detection, light detection, pit and staircase detection using InfraRed (IR) sensor and GPS (Global Positioning System) which helps them to accomplish his/her daily tasks with ease. The obstacle detection and trajectory mapping module use ultrasonic sensors, IR sensor to alert the visually impaired over any obstacle, potholes or water puddles through different beeping/vibrating patterns. GPS is used to identify the current location of the person which is sent as a text message to the family members. We also provide the stick with an EMERGENCY BUTTON which notifies the emergency contact number in case of distress. All these facilities are not at all possible if the visually challenged person has misplaced the cane somewhere else. For this purpose, we have fixed an alarm in the smart cane which is connected to their mobile phones. This alarm helps them to find their smart cane if they misplaced it. All these using an Arduino!

Keyword - Blind Stick, Arduino, GPS, IR Sensor, Ultrasonic Sensor, LDR, Water Sensor.


